so we went to Birmingham and we formed
the English Defense League and that's
where the name English Defense League
come from now when we went to Birmingham
we went as a group of 50 50 men from
Luton we got violently battered okay the
news and this is where my first
Awakening to the media come so there's a
picture he this boy wasn't with us
there's a young English boy at a bus
stop with a green top Green Top on and
gangs of Muslims just come from
everywhere and they battered everyone
yeah and there's a there's a picture in
the National newspaper and they're
jumping on this boy's head and
underneath the picture it says a fascist
is attacked by
anti-fascists and I look at I remember
look at what remember I had an Awakening
to everything I because I went from
working on a building site yeah to six
months later leading the biggest protest
movement you have seen and when we went
to Birmingham as a group of 50 we had
English Defense League Tops on L and it
said Luton division the the name of our
town and these images went everywhere of
English men getting chased and beaten
yeah so this was Birmingham and our Pro
our first banners said victims of jihad
in Nigeria we stand with you cuz
obviously I was down the rabbit hole so
I was seeing on Christmas day five five
Christian churches were blown to Pieces
didn't make the BBC News yeah I was
following all these stories around the
world of Christians facing persecution
at the hands of jihad no one caring yeah
so we went to Burmingham we thought
let's highlight a lot of issues here
yeah let's make this this a point and we
had banners we had placards but we got
violently the police had to lock us in a
building for two hours because they
couldn't control the streets then they
got buses and put us on the the buses
and to get us out of there and all the
windows were coming in there was riots
going on so from this we then went back
to Luton and then we saw a Christian
Church in Manchester that been taken
over by Muslims which there's been
another video go viral just weeks ago
similar situation it was in the area of
longside and they were bulldozing over
Christian graveyard Graves and
headstones so I was watching it going
like they can't do this how come no
one's talking about this in the town
where's the local political voice
where's the politicians now the thing
where we people said because we took to
the streets now we went from a group of
50 men in Birmingham being violently
beaten to going on all the messaging
Boards of English football clubs then
turned up in Manchester and I was like
when we got there there was thousands of
young Englishmen had come from
everywhere and and from the start
because of the violence in Birmingham
the men had come with an attitude of no
we're not backing down okay so that was
sort of the start and the birth of the
English Defense League which every City
we went to there was a Justified reason
for going yeah but no one ever spoke
about that and then and then I realized
very quickly that everything I'd seen in
L everything I talked about in luten was
it happening in every town the city so
then I started meeting families that
victim their daughters were missing for
weeks and then I started hearing all
these stories and it's one thing to read
about grooming and and that's why I made
a five-part series The One You' talked
about that you watched because you don't
get to feel the pain I'm sitting with a
mother father and a brother whose
13-year-old daughter's been missing for
five days and the police have doing
nothing now no one so I remember going
on big chat shows in 2009 Jeremy Paxman
was the was the most feared BBC
presenter and he had a show called
newsight and when I went on everyone was
all our opposition at the time and I was
terrified again and it was the first
time my mom so my family had been crying
since the time I started my activism
because my mom was threatened with her
job um there was violence police raids
uh terrorists attack terrorist plots so
my family are begging me and begging me
to stop and I went on this Jeremy Paxman
show and I said to I said to him like I
don't expect you to understand yeah but
I expect you to listen okay our
daughters are being taken they're being
groomed they're being raped they're
being prostituted in every tennessy yeah
and he said you expect us to believe and
and it hasn't aged well for him at all
because in the early days we were
condemned as fabricating stories and and
making this up so you understand the
level I met a father from Blackpool the
gang took his daughter okay the father
father and the son would ring ring his
phone and he'd have to listen whilst
they were raping his da yeah these these
levels so you and and in 2015 so we
spread we go across the country and I've
done a presentation called the rape of
Brun as well as documentaries and I go
back to us marching through Telford and
now the arrest rates for these crimes if
you do a graph it goes like this there's
none yeah the English Defense League
forms in 2009 by 2010 and 2011 the
arrests are going through the roof now
we didn't expect any credit for it or
any any recognition for it but the
government were then faced with
something they knew was going on look my
sense was and this is part of why you're
here today like I've been watching that
since then I don't know if it's since
then but it wasn't long after that and
it was my sense at the time and this is
something I think that Tammy has
observed too that your work was
essentially what called attention to the
fact of these grooming gangs so Andrew
norfol is a Times newspaper who finally
questioned these gangs now what he says
he says we saw the emergence of the far
right he's given an interview I had been
made knowledgeable of these gangs for
years but everyone was too scared to
touch it because all the men were
Pakistani Muslim and all the girls were
young English children yeah so he'd
known about it so for me Andrew norfol
yeah okay you you you ended up reporting
it in the end but you was a coward for
years yeah you well I also think you
know it's hard for people what do they
say Carl San said extraordinary
extraordinary claims require
extraordinary evidence I talked to
Michael shellenberger about the trans
Butchery of kids that's going on now W
paath and shellenberger who's a very
brave journalist told me that he had
listened to my interview with either
Abigail shrier or Helen Joyce detailing
this out probably two years ago now and
he said he couldn't believe it it took
shenberger two years to contemplate this
because he couldn't believe of the
magnitude of the crime and I think it's
not it's not merely cowardice although
there's plenty of that it's also the
fact that look it's a lot easier to
write you off than to admit that there
are gangs of of people who've been
brought into the country who have set
out malevolently and with intent to rape
thousands of girls so it's a hell of a
lot easier to write you off as a farri
extremist than it is to even begin to
contemplate what that might mean and
that's what he that's what he said he
said we he said when I saw the emergence
of the far right by far by far right he
means concerned English fathers yeah
yeah concerned Englishmen who are saying
we've had enough of this if you go back
to our videos we're marching through
City saying Muslim pedos off our streets
yeah before all this typical far rate
stance yeah 2015 is when the ren report
was released okay now this is when
Andrew norfol started talking about it
now that Andrew norik starts talking
about it then they do an investigation
in the city of RAM and the City of ram
has a 3.7% Muslim population and they
find that over 1,400 children have been
raped yeah and they find that the police
knew Social Services government so I I
remember at the time of this when it
blew up everything we'd said everything
we'd been screaming about yeah now it's
in a government report now that was
actually one of the things that really
alerted me to just exactly how screwy
things had become so that was before I
made the videos that made me viral in
2016 but one of the things I'd been
following was that story and it took me
well the first way you react when you
come across a story like that is it's
something like there's there's just no
way this can possibly be true and it's
far worse than you can ever yeah well
that it's far worse
[Music]